Shawn's recipe for falafel and cucumber
sauce is simple and quick to prepare he
had delivers lots of Mediterranean
flavors
we'll start by making the cucumber sauce
add 6 ounces of Greek or plain yogurt to
a bowl together with half of appeal
seeded and finely chopped cucumber 1
tablespoon of fresh dill or a teaspoon
of dried and salt and ground black
pepper to taste
give this a stir and add a tablespoon of
mayonnaise if you wish to make it more
creamy refrigerate the sauce for at
least 30 minutes now that it's chilling
let's start on the falafel add 1 15
ounce can of drained chickpeas into a
bowl and mash until thick and pasty next
in a food processor or a blender combine
1 chopped onion 1/2 a cup of fresh
parsley and 2 chopped garlic cloves
blend this until smooth and stir into
the mashed chickpeas then in a separate
bowl mix together 1 egg 2 teaspoons of
ground cumin and 1 teaspoon each of the
following ground coriander salt lemon
juice and baking powder
season to taste with ground black pepper
and cayenne pepper and stir in with the
chickpeas
let's add a tablespoon of olive oil and
breadcrumbs if needed to help the
falafel mixture hold together this looks
great so we'll divide it into eight
equal portions and shape into patties
about a half inch thick and two inches
in diameter
ready to fry add enough vegetable oil to
a large skillet to reach about one inch
deep and heat over medium-high heat
gently lower the patties into the oil
and fry until Brown about four minutes
per side
shawne's falafels are best when served
right away inside a pita pocket with the
prepared cucumber sauce or try it as a
salad topper on a bed of mixed greens